That talk a bit about a concrete implementation of the scan and let's compare this method with a k means
clustering.
OK.
So first of all we are going to generate a data set.
We are able to imported from data sets and this make moon function is going to generate 1000 and 500
samples who weighed 5 percent noise.
OK and if we applaud the original dataset we can take a closer look at it.
So this is the data that we would like to closter.
Basically we have two half circles and this is what we want to closter with the help of the scan and
k means clustering.
OK.
So as far as the scan is concerned we don't have to define the number of clusters.
So basically this is why we prefer D-B scan.
We just have to define and Absolom parameter.
And basically that's all we are able to fit the model.
And then we are able to get the labels so D-B scan labels we are able to get the labels after fitting
the model.
OK we just have to define two colors the red color and green color and we are able to Plaut the cluster
as we have found with the top of the scanner.
So the scan is going to find two Klosters a green closter and Arat Gloucester we are able to do the
same with K means clustering.
And if we take a look at the second plot this is why we prefer D-B scan.
As you can see it is quite apparent that we have two Klosters the first cluster here and the second
cluster here.
D.B skin algorithm is able to find the two Klosters without any issue but k means clustering is not
that perfect as you can see we are not able to solve this problem with the help of k means clustering.
OK so this is why we prefer the scan algorithm.
By the way if we take a closer look at the documentation of the scan we can find lots of lots of paramita
errors such as Epsilon.
So basically this is the maximum distance between two samples.
This is how we are able to decide whether the samples belong to the same cluster or the same neighborhood
or not.
We can define the mean samples as you can see the mean samples.
The fourth value is five.
This is the number of samples or total weight in the neighborhood for a point to be considered as a
quarter point.
So this includes the pointed south.
OK by the way the default value is usually fine.
Then there's a metric which is set to be Euclidean.
There are several methods to measure the distance between two points.
We can use Manhattan distance or we can use Euclidean distance for most of the cases we use Euclidean
distance.
So that's why this is the default value as far as the metric parameter is concerned.
OK we have the number of parallel jobs.
If it is set to be minus 1 this is what we have been talking about for random for classifiers then the
number of jobs is set to the number of CPQ cores.
So what does it mean that we are able to make D-B scan a parallel algorithm.
This dataset is so small that we can use D-B scan RIDO with any parallelization.
But if we have a huge dataset we are able to use parallel algorithms and multiple ACP cores in order
to boost the algorithm.
OK so this is why D-B scanner for most of the cases is a better approach.
Danny K means clustering if you take a look at this plot it is quite straightforward that we are able
to find the two Klosters with D-B scan and Kamins clustering on the other hand is not working fine.
And what's more important that for Kamins clustering we have to define the number of clusters.
And usually we don't know the number of clusters to use so D-B scan is a better algorithm.
We can use multiple CPQ cores in order to make this algorithm parallel and make it as fast as possible.
And we don't have to define the number of Klosters that's all about D-B scan.
Thanks for watching.